{:title "Books on software entrepreneurship"
 :layout :post
 :draft? true
 }

On the face of it, a developer has the ability today to find a market niche, develop a product (or service), and find interested customers anywhere, thanks to tools such as the internet, cloud computing,  appstores and such. Few other professions today have the capability to offer such a service, while being able to work anywhere.

However, (outside of a small percentage of App store developers), examples of developers who run software SaaS services or consultancies are not too common. While there are a host of "education providers" who advocate starting a small business (e.g. Ramit Sethi/Tim Ferris/etc), most are not software focused. 

That changed when I happened to come across a book _A Coder's path to Wealth and Independence by Mark Beckner_ in the local library.

;I recently read 2 books about software entrepreneurship, which are quite unlike the "Lean Startup" methodology that is all the rage these days.

Mark is a technology expert on the Microsoft Biztalk server product line, and he's written books and delivered talks on the same. 
This book is a manual on running a _software consultancy_ as an individual, or as a team with part time or full time collaborators. It goes into details such as 

* how to structure contracts
* advice on hiring freelancers
* TODO

What I like about this book was the rather no-nonsense advice about building and running a small consultancy, which is quite a contrast to the "build the next unicorn" kind of strategy that is quite popular these days.

Post this book, I happened to find Rob Walling's _Start Small, Stay Small: A Developer's guide to Launching a startup_. This book's focus is similar to the ideas in Lean Startup, with a key difference being its focus on finding and building a software product that 

* targets markets that are small and feasible for a single person to build and manage.
* 

The book breaks down the process into steps such as:

* Finding a market, and testing it before actually spending months developing a product. For example, build a product launch page with screenshots that tests what percentage of customers might sign up for it, were it to be made available.
* Outsource most of the tasks, even (shudder) actual software development.
* Pricing strategies
* Marketing, sales, writing copy that sells.

Rob also runs the "Micropreneur workshop" that up-skills developers into learning how to find, build and launch these one-person SaaS products.

